h1. Changelog

Here's a summary of changes in each release. The list doesn't include some small changes or updates to test cases.

h2. "Version 2.4.3 - 2013/12/03":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v2.4.3

* Use Perl-compatible named sub-patterns.
* Allow overriding symbol constants as intended.

h2. "Version 2.4.2 - 2013/12/02":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v2.4.2

* Fix PHP 5.5 compatibility. Resolve E_DEPRECATED messages and drop @e@ regular expression modifier.
* Fix suppressed notices.

h2. "Version 2.4.1 - 2012/08/23":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v2.4.1

* Add @sftp@, @callto@, @tel@ and @file@ schemes to the URI whitelist in unrestricted mode.
* Support international format @tel@ URIs via linkrefs (link aliases.)
* Extend linkrefs to all available URI schemes in unrestricted mode.
* Reverted looser matching of list-like structures as it introduced problems in block-level elements that
  can legitimately have literals or other non-lists in them that are similar to textile's lists.
  See issue #65 for some examples.
* Fixed #61 which caused strong numeric strings at the start of a line to be turned into lists.
* Reverted auto-breaking in table cells as it introduced #71 (breaking lists within table cells).
* Fixed #67 which ran textile within table cells through the glyph routine twice.

h2. "Version 2.4.0 - 2012/05/07":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v2.4.0

* Conditionally use utf8 in span regex pattern. Closes #53.
* Small code cleanups
* Convert \n to @<br/>@ inside table rows.
* Added HTML comment block handling.
* Added ability to control the start attribute and continuation of ordered lists.
* Adds basic Redcloth-style definition list support.
* Add ability to customise footnote refs and anchors.
* Add https protocol to linkrefs.
* Add unicode support for linkref urls.
* Added redcloth style list continuation.
* Loosen recognition of notedefs and notelists.
* Better recognition of lists adjoined to previous text. (This was reverted in 2.4.1 as it caused issues inside block elements like bc. or bq.)
* Bugfix: allow apostrophe between ) and a word character.
* Allow notelist refs to be customised.

h2. "Version 2.3.2 - 2012/03/20":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v2.3.2

* Allow multiple classes in block attributes.
* Improve handling of (classA classB#Bad id) blocks.
* Add span $tail fix & support for trailing [ in spans.
* Add doctype to textile constructor & use abbr instead of acronym for html5 doctypes.
* HTML5 doctype extends class rather than use invalid align attribute.
* Allow auto-assigned classes to be output in restricted mode.
* Add support for encoding Unicode characters in links.
* Notelists: fix order of @sup@ and @a@. Fixes issue #20
* Add simple set of symbols ¤§µ¶†‡•∗∴◊♠♣♥♦ to notelist regex. Requested in #38
* Remove attributes from embedded code tag output by bc.
* Simplify en-dash glyph rule -- should fix #50
* Simplify self-hyperlinked text, remove the scheme for http, https, ftp and mailto link text.

h2. "Version 2.3.0 - 2012/01/10":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v2.3

* Fix potential DoS in cleanba().
* Fix the issue where class would eat the note label.
* Sanitise image URLs.
* Allow inline span tags to be applied within non-English quotation marks.
* Allow non-English quotation marks inside inline span tags.
* Allow pipe closure of captions.
* Allow missing closing pipe in colgroups.
* Note-style links can use index 0.
* Encode quotes in restricted mode, rather than improperly leaving them as is.
* Improve lang, style, id and class handling.
* Add rel attributes to linked images.
* Center aligned cells aren't treated as captions.
* Removed use of deprecated @split()@ function.
* Disallow unsafe block attributes in restricted mode.

h2. "Version 2.2.0 - 2010/09/22":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v2.2public

This is our first release forked from "revision 3359":https://code.google.com/p/textpattern/source/detail?r=3359 of "Textpattern CMS":http://textpattern.com. Here are the changes since Textile v2.0.0:

* Allow duplicate notelists with different backref characters.
* Properly render empty table cells.
* Add support for glyphs such as fractions, plus-minus and degrees.
* Optimize glyph encoding setup.
* Optimize style attribute processing.
* Less restrictive paragraph breaking.
* Output cleaner inline styles.
* More restrictive apostrophe encoding and matching.
* Remove horizontal and vertical alignment attributes from list elements.
* Lists can use dot terminator.
* Improved table generation: allow linebreaks in table cells, colgroups, thead, tbody and tfoot elements.
* Add auto-numbered notelists.
* Add Textile comment tag. Comments aren't displayed in the generated markup.
* Add self-links where the URL can be used with the link text (@"$":http://example.com@).
* Allow glyph parsing across tag boundaries.
* Add definition lists.
* Fix duplicate IDs in footnotes.
* Caps span isn't added to acronyms.
