###. This block is used by the Help File generator -- #####
you don't need to include it in your own Textile documents.
page_title => Attributes
sort_order => 40
###########################################################

h1. XHTML attribute syntax
  
###. The Textile synax examples below are enclosed in <pre> blocks. 
     This is so the Textile markup can be seen in the HTML output
     from this file.

h2. General

XHTML attributes can be applied most places Textile markup is used:

* @style@
* @class@
* @id@
* @lang@

Exceptions and additional attributes are noted below and elsewhere in
 this document.

h3. Block attributes

For block elements, the attribute is applied between the block identifier
 and the closing dot-space:

pre. 
h3(note). Note

bc. <h3 class="note">Note</h3>

h3. Phrase attributes

For phrase elements, the attribute is applied after the block identifier:

pre. 
  This is *(notice)important*!

bc. This is <strong class="notice">important</strong>!

h3. Multiple attributes

Attribute declarations may be chained together:

pre. 
p(note){color:#aaa}. Note

bc. <p style="color:#aaa;" class="note">Note</p>

h2. Class and id

Parentheses indicate @class@ or @id@. For @id@, prefix @#@ to the value.
 To add both attributes, simply include both, as shown below.

pre. 
p(#tagline). TEXTILE: The Humane Web Text Generator

bc. <p id="tagline"><span class="caps">TEXTILE</span>: The Humane Web Text Generator</p>

pre. 
pre(php). echo $textile;

bc. <pre class="php">echo $textile;
</pre>

pre. 
p(aside#notes). Notes

bc. <p class="aside" id="notes">Notes</p>

h2. Style

h3. General

Curly brackets apply the @style@ attribute:

pre. 
p{line-height:18px;color:red}. paragraph

bc. <p style="line-height:18px; color:red;">paragraph</p>

h3. Text alignment shortcuts

pre. 
p<. left-aligned text

bc. <p style="text-align:left;">left-aligned text</p>

pre. 
p>. right-aligned text

bc. <p style="text-align:right;">right-aligned text</p>

pre. 
p<>. justified text

bc. <p style="text-align:justify;">justified text</p>

pre. 
h1=. centered text

bc. <h1 style="text-align:center;">centered text</h1>

h2. Language

Square brackets apply the @lang@ attribute:

pre. 
h3[no]. Bruk Textile

bc. <h3 lang="no">Bruk Textile</h3>

pre. 
 %[fr]Utiliser Textile%

bc.  <span lang="fr">Utiliser Textile</span>
