###. This block is used by the Help File generator -- #####
you don't need to include it in your own Textile documents.
page_title => Blocks
sort_order => 20
###########################################################

h1. Block modifier syntax

h2. General notes

* Blocks must be separated by a blank line.
* A block identifier must begin its line (no white space beforehand), and,
  except for list items, be followed by a dot and a space.
* A block identifier followed by two dots (and a space) is an extended block.
  It will continue, spanning blank lines, until the next block identifier.
* A line break within a block is converted to an XHTML break.
  
###. The Textile synax examples below are enclosed in <pre> blocks. 
     This is so the Textile markup can be seen in the HTML output
     from this file.

h2. Headers: h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6

pre. 
h1. Example header

bc. <h1>Example header</h1>
 
h2. Paragraph: p (optional)

pre. 
p. A paragraph

bc. <p>A paragraph</p>

pre. 
Also a paragraph,
with a line break

bc. <p>Also a paragraph,<br />
with a line break</p>

h2. Blockquote: bq

pre. 
bq. Block quotation...

bc. <blockquote>
    <p>Block quotation&#8230;</p>
</blockquote>

pre. 
bq.:http://textism.com/ Textile ...

bc. <blockquote cite="http://textism.com/">
    <p>Textile &#8230;</p>
</blockquote>

h2. Footnote: fn(1-100)

pre. 
fn1. Footnote... 

bc. <p id="fn1">Footnote...</p>

h2. Preformatted text: pre and bc

p(note). XHTML tag brackets will be converted to XHTML entities.

pre. 
pre. <html>

bc. <pre>&lt;html&gt;</pre>

pre. 
bc. $text->TextileThis(... 

bc. <pre><code>$text-&gt;TextileThis(...</code></pre>

h2. Textile disabled: notextile

pre. 
notextile. Textile automatically converts '&' to '&amp;', but not here.

bc. Textile automatically converts '&' to '&amp;', but not here.

h2. Textile partially disabled:

A block beginning with whitespace will not be converted to a block element,
 but will still undergo phrase modifier and entity conversion

pre. 
 No block element, but special characters such as < are still converted 
to HTML entities.

bc. No block element, but special characters such as &lt; are still converted
to <span class="caps">HTML</span> entities.

h2. Comment: ###

pre. 
###. This is a comment block. It will not appear in the XHTML output.
