###. This block is used by the Help File generator -- #####
page_title => Change History 
sort_order => 5000
###########################################################

h1. Change History

Summary of changes to textile by release version.

###. ######################################################

h2. Version ?.? (To be announced.)

h3. Bug-Fixes

* Unescaped output.
* Table Colgroups + captions without closing pipes.
* Centred table cells treated as table captions.
* Referenced links with index 0 (zero) not shown.
* PHP 5.3 compatibility.
* Only well formed language attributes allowed in restricted mode.

h3. Project Management Changes

* Project decoupled from "Textpattern":http://textpattern.com
* Textile repo moved to "Github":https://github.com/netcarver/textile
* IRC Channel (_#textile_ on "freenode.net") added.

h3. New Features.

* YAML formatted test cases added to project.
* Improved spanning within non-English quotation marks.
* Documentation overhaul...
** Seperated example documentation from classTextile.php.
** Help viewing system added.


###. ######################################################

h2. Version 2.2

h3. *Bug-Fixes*

* Duplicate IDs in footnotes.
* Apostrophe's and emphasized text.
* Caps spans in table cells.
* Caps spans around non-latin uppercase characters.

h3. *New Features*

* Support for utf-8 regexes.
* Auto-numbered notelists.
* Attributes for list items.
* Extended support for tables; thead, tbody, tfoot, captions, summary, colgroups, cols.
* Definition lists.
* Textile comments.
* Self-hyperlinks.
* Finer controls on footnote linking and backlinking.
