###. This block is used by the Help File generator -- #####
you don't need to include it in your own Textile documents.
page_title => Block syntax
sort_order => 20
###########################################################

h1. Block modifier syntax

h2. General notes

* Blocks (other than list items) must be separated by a blank line.
* A block identifier must begin its line (no white space beforehand), and,
  except for list items, be followed by a dot and a space.
* A block identifier followed by two dots (and a space) is an extended block.
  It will continue, spanning blank lines, until the next block identifier.
  
###. The Textile synax examples below are escaped in <pre> blocks. 
     This is so the Textile markup can be seen in the HTML output
     from this file.

h2. Headers: h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6

pre. 
h1. Example header

bc. <h1>Example header</h1>
 
h2. Paragraph: p (optional)

pre. 
p. A paragraph

bc. <p>A paragraph</p>

pre. 
Also a paragraph

bc. <p>Also a paragraph</p>

h2. Blockquote: bq

pre. 
bq. Block quotation...

bc. <blockquote>Block quotation...</blockquote>

pre. 
bq.:http://textism.com/ Text...

bc. <blockquote cite="http://textism.com">Text...</blockquote>

h2. Footnote: fn(1-100)

pre. 
fn1. Footnote... 

bc. <p id="fn1">Footnote...</p>

h2. Lists

List items appear on consecutive lines. Lists may be nested by repeating
 the list item identifier. There is no dot after the identifier.

h3. Numeric list: #

pre. 
# First item
# Second list item
## First nested item
## Second nested item
# Third item

bc. <ol>
	<li>First item</li>
	<li>Second list item
	<ol>
		<li>First nested item</li>
		<li>Second nested item</li>
	</ol></li>
	<li>Third item</li>
</ol>    
    
h3. Bulleted list: *

pre. 
* First item
* Second list item
** First nested item
** Second nested item
* Third item

bc. <ul>
	<li>First item</li>
	<li>Second list item
	<ul>
		<li>First nested item</li>
		<li>Second nested item</li>
	</ul></li>
	<li>Third item</li>
</ul>    

h3. Definition list:

* Term ;
* Definition :

pre. 
; A term
: A definition
;; Nested list term
:: Nested list definition
; Another term
: Another definition

bc. <dl>
	<dt>A term</dt>
	<dd>A definition
	<dl>
		<dt>Nested list term</dt>
		<dd>Nested list definition</dd>
	</dl></dd>
	<dt>Another term</dt>
	<dd>Another definition</dd>
</dl>

h2. Preformatted text: pre and bc

pre. 
pre. <html>

bc. <pre>&lt;html&gt;</pre>

pre. 
bc. $text->TextileThis(... 

bc. <pre><code>$text-&gt;TextileThis(...</code></pre>

h2. Block with Textile disabled: notextile

pre. 
notextile. Textile automatically converts '&' to '&amp;', but not here.

bc. Textile automatically converts '&' to '&amp;', but not here.

h2. Textile partially disabled:

A block beginning with whitespace will not be converted to a block element,
 but will still undergo phrase modifier and entity conversion

pre. 
 No block element, but HTML special characters such as < are still converted.

bc. No block element, but HTML special characters such as &lt; are still converted.

h2. Comment: ###

pre. 
###. This is a comment block. It will not appear in the XHTML output.
